---
layout: post
title: Reflection on three years of graduate school
description: A look back on success and failures, as well as future goals
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Entering my 4th year as PhD student, I thought it would be a good time to revisit all that has happened so far and what I'm looking forward to in the future!
<!--more-->

---

## Successes
The past couple of years have been busy and fun, with a lot of great experiences and outcomes across different areas. Thanks to a first year fellowship, I was able to dive into research very early on. This work on design function and functional similarity resulted in two conference publications at the International Design Engineering Technical Conferences (IDETC) in 2020 and 2021, with the second paper being nominated for the best paper award in Design Theory and Methodology! With additional work on these topics, I was able to publish two papers in the Journal of Mechanical Design (JMD), one of which was featured on the JMD website. Aside from the functional similarity work, over the summer of 2021, I was able to work on a project with a group of cognitive scientists from Sandia National Labs on a behavioral study assessing the cognitive impact of errors from computational models. Within such a broad topic, I determined a direction of interest, designed an experiment and interface, and ran the study, all in the span of that summer! This was a significant project as I realized that I had the ability to, not only collaborate outside of disciplinary boundaries, but also drive research more independently. This work ended up being presented at the NeurIPS 2021 HCAI workshop, where I was able to meet people working more broadly on human-centered computing. Then, it was accepted to the Design Cognition and Computing Conference (DCC) where it even won an award for best paper in design cognition/neurocognition! On the side, I also contributed to a project on design space exploration in virtual reality through one of my classes. This project ended up being accepted as an extended abstract to the CHI conference in the human-computer interaction field, providing a starting point to work on more HCI-relevant work. Thanks to a block grant award in summer of 2022, I've additionally been able to start a new project related to subjective design preferences and user modeling, a new topic of interest. Finally, the opportunity to attend a summer school on data-driven design in summer of 2022 has also helped me develop my technical abilities, which I hope will serve me well for the new directions I plan to pursue. 

Outside of research output, there were also several other experiences that I consider successes over the three years. I have been able to write my first grants and serve as a conference reviewer, which has allowed me to better understand the academic engineering design community. More locally, after my first semester of being a graduate student instructor for the Human-Centered Design Methods class at Berkeley, I was awarded an Outstanding GSI award in fall of 2020. Since then, I've also been a graduate student instructor for two additional classes and have even started to contribute to some of the lectures. I've learned that teaching is one of the most rewarding parts of being a graduate student! For the last two years, I've also had the opportunity to present my research to first-year students, as well as run literature review workshops for a summer design research program. Furthermore, I've been able to help with a faculty search committee and help organize some design seminar talks, giving me exposure to a wider view of research in design. These experiences have allowed me to give back to the broader design community here at Berkeley! Collectively, looking back, there are many things to be proud of from the first three years of my PhD that I didn't realize until writing it all out.

## Failures
Of course, on the other side of success is failure, and there were definitely failures over the three years. Although I considered the act of submitting grants for the first time as a success, on the flip side, none of the grants I submitted ended up being funded, so this can also be considered a failure! Similarly, I failed to procure any long-term fellowships to fund my research, pointing to improvements I need to make in communicating and presenting my research vision. There were also other failures throughout that time that relate more to my expected timeline. For example, I have not yet completed my master's report in the normative two years and there were also several times that I failed to make a conference deadline. However, even writing this out, I realize that many of the failures I have experienced can be attributed to things left undone rather than things that I failed at, which is quite encouraging! Either way, I'll maintain the mindset of trying to improve in light of these failures rather than letting them deter me. 

## Goals
My goals for the rest of my PhD are largely to continue enjoying the experience and pursuing interesting research, even if it doesn't always go the way I want! Being able to dive further into computational and data-driven design has always been one of my goals and it's nice to see that start more this year. At the same time, I want to maintain a human-centered lens on my work, which will involve finding better ways to apply my research to impactful problems such as those related to sustainable or inclusive design. 

---

It's been a great three years, overall!