---
layout: post
title: New year ambitions (2021 edition)
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
It's finally(?) 2021! 2020 has gone by at times, extremely quickly, and at times, excruciatingly slowly. From my privileged
position as a graduate student, I have experienced relatively small ups and downs, but witnessed larger ups and downs in the world around me.
As is generally the case around a new year, I've had some time to contemplate my goals, at least short-term, which I'll record here to look back on when the time comes.
<!--more-->

---

## Research
I expect that research will be unpredictable and nonlinear, so I'll be flexible here. I've spent the last >6 months planning a project in a new topic/space
that I haven't really tried before! Ideally, this year will be a prototype year on how I might carry out projects that relate to this larger research question. Hopefully,
I'll be able to submit work to at least one conference and make headway towards a publication. Additionally, it would be great to start work on a collaborative project within or 
outside my lab and mentor more students doing research projects! Finally, I'll continue to explore all the exciting research going on both in my field and fields related to it
by attending as many talks as I can (one benefit of virtual grad school!). 

- 1 publication of any type submitted **(completed)**
- Initial data collected for a new project **(completed)**
- Start a collaboration **(completed)**
- Attend 1 interesting talk per month **(succeeded at this for about 4 months and then only intermittently)**

## Skills
So many things to learn! I will try to connect my fragmented knowledge of computer science, focusing on specific areas of interest like AI and computer graphics.
This will likely involve improving my understanding of fundamental math, statistics, and probability. Within mechanical engineering, I plan to up my proficiency 
in the fundamentals of machine design and materials, as well as gain a better working understanding of controls and mechatronics. I'd like to understand ways to collect 
and analyze sensor data to make sense of the physical world. I want to learn some of the basic tools to work with robots including simulating in Gazebo and working with ROS, 
perhaps to look more into human-robot interaction. Finally, I'll improve my skills in collecting and working with human behavioral data to continue practicing human-centered design!

- Simulate a simple quadruped in Gazebo **(did not complete)**
- Develop cheap prototype of a robot **(did not complete)**
- At least 1 hour of learning per week in mechE, math, or CS fundamentals **(did not complete, but tried)**

## Personal
2020 was a reset in terms of physical fitness and finding hobbies that I love! I gained an appreciation for long distance running and also for seeing all the beautiful parts of the
Bay Area that I haven't seen despite growing up here. So, in 2021, I will make more time for pursuing goals related to running and exploring (and not be lazy!). In undergrad, 
I was involved in makerspaces both in terms of mentoring students and maintaining my "make" skills. I don't come from a background of building things,
so this was such an exciting environment to be in - one that I constantly learned from. After starting graduate school, I haven't continued those activities as much,
so, finally, I plan to work towards getting back into the maker ecosystem at UC Berkeley as soon as I can go back in person!

- Run 1000 miles, run 2 half-marathon distances **(ran 1 half marathon, ~500 miles, bought a bike!)**
- Go on at least 1 hike per month **(completed for about 6/12 months)**
- Complete at least 1 personal design project **(did not complete, but was a TA for prototyping class)**
