---
layout: post
title: Reflection on three years of graduate school
description: A look back on success and failures, as well as future goals
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Entering my 4th year as PhD student, I thought it would be a good time to revisit all that has happened so far and what I'm looking forward to in the future!
<!--more-->

---

## Successes
The past couple of years have been busy and fun, with a lot of great experiences and outcomes across different areas. Thanks to a first year fellowship, I was able to dive into research very early on. This work on design function and functional similarity resulted in two conference publications at the International Design Engineering Technical Conferences (IDETC) in 2020 and 2021, with the second paper being nominated for the best paper award in Design Theory and Methodology. With additional work on these topics, I was able to publish two papers in the Journal of Mechanical Design (JMD), one of which was featured on the JMD website. Aside from the functional similarity work, over the summer of 2021, I was able to work on a project with a group of cognitive scientists from Sandia National Labs on a behavioral study assessing the cognitive impact of errors from computational models. Within such a broad topic, I was able to determine a direction of interest, design an experiment and interface, and run the study, all in the span of that summer! That was significant, because I realized that I had the ability to not only collaborate outside of disciplinary boundaries but also drive research more independently. This work ended up being presented at the NeurIPS 2021 HCAI workshop, where I was able to meet people working more broadly on human-centered computing. Then, it was accepted to the Design Cognition and Computing Conference (DCC) where it even won an award for best paper in design cognition/neurocognition! On the side, I was also able to contribute to a project on design space exploration in virtual reality through a class I took. This project ended up being submitted and accepted as an extended abstract to the CHI conference in the human-computer interaction field, providing a starting point to potentially work on more HCI-relevant work. Thanks to a block grant award in summer of 2022, I've additionally been able to start new projects related to subjective design preferences and user modeling, a new topic of interest. The opportunity to attend a summer school on data-driven design in summer of 2022 has also helped me develop my technical abilities, which I hope will serve me well for the new directions I plan to pursue. 

Outside of research output, there were also several other experiences that I consider successes over the three years. After my first semester of being a graduate student instructor for the Human-Centered Design Methods class at Berkeley, I was awarded an Outstanding GSI award in fall of 2020. Since then, I've also been a graduate student instructor for two additional classes and have even started to contribute to some of the lectures. I've learned that teaching is one of the most rewarding parts of being a graduate student! I've also had the opportunity for the last two years to present my research to first-year students who are just learning about what research is, as well as run literature review workshops for Berkeley's summer design research program. Furthermore, I've been able to help with a faculty search committee as well as help organize some design seminar talks, giving me exposure to a wider view of research in design and its impact. These experiences have allowed me to give back to the broader design community here at Berkeley. Finally, I have been able to get a glimpse into what life as a professor is like by writing my first grants and serving as a conference reviewer for the first time. Collectively, looking back, there are many things to be proud of from the first three years of my PhD that I didn't realize until writing it all out! 

## Failures
Of course, successes cannot come without failures and as expected, there were also some things that I failed at over the three years. Although I considered the act of submitting grants as a success in its own right, none of the grants I submitted ended up being funded, so this can also be considered a failure! Similarly, I failed to procure any long-term fellowships to fund my research and have had to get by through a combination of teaching and contributing to funded research projects for the most part. There were also some other failures throughout the time that related more to my expected timeline. For example, I was not able to complete my MS report in the normative two years and there were several times that I couldn't make a conference deadline that I planned to make. However, even writing this out, I realize that much of the failures I have experienced can be attributed to things that I failed to do rather than things that I failed at, which is quite encouraging! Either way, I'll maintain the mindset of trying to improve in light of these failures rather than letting them deter me. 

## Goals
My goals for the rest of my PhD are largely to continue enjoying the experience and pursuing interesting research, even if it doesn't always go the way I want! Being able to dive further into computational and data-driven design has always been one of my goals and it's nice to see that start more this year. At the same time, I want to maintain a human-centered lens on my work and find better ways to apply my research to impactful problems such as those related to sustainable or inclusive design. 

---

It's been a great three years, overall!